From the senior management we have with
us today Mr. Sanjie Mantri MD and CEO of
the company Mr. Gopal Balachandran CFO
Mr. Anand Singhi Chief Retail and
Government
Mr. Girish Nayak Chief Technology and
Health Underwriting and Claims Mr. Sep
Guradya Chief Corporate Solutions
International and Bank assurance and Mr.
Goro Verora, Chief Free Insurance,
Underwriting and Claims for Property and
Casualty.
Please note that any statements comments
are made in today's call that may look
like forward-looking statements are
based on information presently available
to the management and do not constitute
an indication of any future performance
as future involved risks and
uncertaintities which could cause
results to differ materially from the
current views being expressed. As there
all lines will be in the listen only
mode and there will be an opportunity
for you to ask questions after the
presentation concludes. Should you need
assistance during the conference call,
please signal an operator by pressing
star and then zero on your touchstone
phone. Please note that this conference
is being recorded. I now hand the
conference over to Mr. Sanjie Mantri, MD
and CEO ICICI Lumbar General Insurance
Limited. Thank you and over to you sir.
Thank you.
Good evening to each one of you. Thank
you for joining the earnings conference
call of ICSL OMARD for quarter 2 and H1
financial year 2026.
I would like to commence with a brief
overview of the recent economic and
industry trends which have shaped the
operating environment over the past few
months. Following that, our CFO Mr.
Gopal Walachandan will take you through
the company's financial performance for
the first half ended September 30th.
During the quarter ended June 2025, the
Indian economy sustained its robust
growth trajectory registering a GDP
growth of 7.8% marking a 5-year quarter
high and surpassing expectations despite
global uncertaintities.
The sovereign credit rating upgrade by
S&P Global coming after 18 years
reflects enhanced confidence in India's
economic fundamentals, fiscal prudence
and related policies.
Following on the heels of the 100 basis
repo cuts and targeted income tax
incentives, the government has now
unveiled a landmark over of the GST
framework which is expected to
turbocharge consumer sentiment
by rationalizing rates and simplifying
compliance. The reforms are expected to
make essential goods and services more
accessible and affordable.
This is expected to unlock stronger
broad-based private consumption and
accelerate economic activity.
Collectively, these three policies
actions are projected to inject nearly
2,200 to 3,100 billion into the economy.
More importantly, these pathbreaking
reforms are expected to provide a
significant boost to the non-life
insurance sector.
The exemption of GST from individual
health insurance premium will make
healthcare protection more affordable
for households and is expected to
increase the lives covered.
In addition, the rationalization of GST
rates in the automoil sector has lowered
the overall cost of vehicle ownership.
We truly believe that this will increase
private mobility enabling more Indians
to own vehicles and encouraging upgrades
to premium models.
In line with our customer first
philosophy, we are committed to passing
the complete benefit of lower GST rates
to our policyh holders.
In conjunction with the above reforms, I
would like to update on the quarter to
2026 numbers and dwell on the trends
observed along with their impact to the
general insurance industry.
The health segment continues to remain
the largest contributor to the industry
and accounts for almost 40% of GDPI mix
in H1 of 2026.
While the market continues to be
moderated due to the 1 byN accounting
norm post September 2025, we have
witnessed a significant uptick in the
retail inensity segment of the business.
We remain confident that more
individuals and families will continue
to enter the health insurance fold and
expand their coverage.
Now coming to the auto sector in quarter
2 2026 this is the data published by
Fada auto industry has grown by 1.3%.
The private car segment grew by 2.9 and
the two-heer segment has seen a modest
growth of.5%.
However, for the month of September
2025, private car sales grew at 5.8%
and two wheelers at 6.5% compared to
September 2024.
Notably and more importantly for the
first nine days of Navatri period the
private car and two wheelers growth
stood at 34.9 and 36% respectively when
compared to the Navarati period for 2025
which is a significantly positive even
after existing to pentup demand. These
trends coupled with our dominant
presence in the OEM space give us
confidence for a positive momentum in
the second half of the year.
While the global economic environment
remains volatile and uncertain, India's
strong macroeconomic fundamentals
supported by pro- consumption policy
stance. We are expected to which are
expected to act as a buffer and continue
to drive domestic economic momentum.
Given the supportive regulatory
environment, we expect general insurance
industry to sustain its growth
trajectory over medium to long term.
Now coming to the industry performance
for the period ended September 30, 2025.
The general insurance industry reported
a GDPI growth of 7.3% for the period
excluding crop and health segment. The
GDPI growth stood at 10.5%.
For the referred period H1 2026,
speaking of specific segments within the
industry, the commercial segment
reported a growth of 14.2% 2% for the
period ending H1 2026. The growth was
majorly driven by the fire line of
business which witnessed a robust
increase of 20.5%
during the refer period and the same
contributes to more than 50% of the
commercial business. The motor segment
growth for the industry stood at 7.6%
for the period H1 2026.
This segment continues to face
significant pricing pressure as
reflected by higher industry combined
ratio for motor line of business.
However, as also spoken already, the
current with the current momentum, we
expect H2 of 2026 to reflect improved
growth levels with the first half of the
financial year.
The health segment including mass health
grew by 7.8% for the period ending H1
2026. Within this the group plan of
business grew at 8.9% for H1 2026
whereas the retail health growth stood
at 9.3% for H1 2026 impacted by the one
by N accounting norm. Speaking on the
underwriting performance of the industry
overall the combined ratio for the
industry deteriorated from 1 month 3.9%
in quarter 1 financial year 2025 to 115%
in quarter 1 2026.
The overall combined ratio for private
players remained flat at 110.8%
for the period quarter 1 2025 with
110.7% for quarter 1 2026.
Combined ratio for the motor line of
business continues to remain elevated at
125% for quarter 1 2026.
Our continued emphasis on profitable
growth delivered a lower combined ratio
of 102.9% in quarter 1 2026 over 12
percentage point better than the
industry average. I will now proceed to
present a company's performance across
three business segments for the period
H1 2026.
The company reported a degrowth of.5% in
GDPI compared to the industry growth of
7.3% for the period H1 2026.
However, excluding the crop and mass
health segment, the company recorded a
growth of 3.5%
while the industry grew at 10.5% for the
period H1 2026.
In the commercial line segment, our
growth stood at 6.5% for H1 2026 as
compared to the industry growth of 14.2%
for the period H1 2026.
We continue to drive profitable growth
through prudent underwriting, judicious
risk reduction and through our multi-
channelannel distribution. While growth
in the fire segment in quarter 1 2026
stood at 10.3%.
We have been able to steadily increase
growth in quarter 2 2026 to 27.3%.
Specifically in the month of September
2025, we grew at 36.4 in fire segment.
We retained our leadership position in
engineering liability and marine cargo
line of business for the period ended H1
2026.
Furthermore, we continue to play the
role of a risk solution partner to our
corporate customers through while
providing them best-in-class value added
services which helps them mitigate risk
with holistic management solutions.
In the motor segment, our growth stood
at 2.2% for H1 2026 as against the
industry growth of 7.6%
for the period H1 2026. While I grow
while our growth in the first 5 months
of the financial year stood at 1.3%.
The month of September 2025 witnessed a
sharp uptick due to the festive demand
and moderation of vehicle price
attributable to the GST rate cut. Taking
a motor influence growth to 6.5%.
In an increasingly competitive market
environment witnessed over the recent
quarters, we expect to maintain the
growth momentum that kicked off in
September while remaining focused on our
journey of profitable growth.
underpinned by continuous distribution
expansion and granular portfolio
segmentation.
Importantly, we continue to maintain our
leadership position in this segment with
a market share of 10.4% in H1 of 2026.
We remain agile and are constantly
taking conscious calls to optimize the
portfolio profitability. And a result of
these efforts a portfolio mix for
private car two-wheer and commercial
vehicles which stood at 52.9%
25.3% and 21.8% respectively for H1 2025
has moved to a mix of 54.3%
25.8% and 19.9% respectively in H1 of
2026.
In health segment we grew by 4.2% for H1
2026 as again the industry growth of 7.8
8% for the period
on a 1 byN basis. Our retail business
demonstrated strong growth of 25.2%
for H1 2026
significantly outpacing the industry
growth of 9.3% as of H1 2026.
Consequently, our market share is
improved from 3.2% in H1 2025 to 3.7%
as of H1 2025. For the month of
September 2025, company has crossed 4%
market share in retail health and this
has happened for the first time. This
performance has been driven by an
ongoing product innovation and sustained
investment in strengthening our retail
health distribution capabilities.
This segment is expected to see an
upward trajectory due to the GST
reforms.
The growth the group health segment
recorded a degrowth of 6% for H1 2026
over H1 2025 with a market share being
at 8.7% as on H1 2026.
The observed degrowth is attributable to
a decline in business generated from the
health benefit portfolio on account of
muted disbbursements in the unsecured
and micro finance sectors.
However, on the overall group health
portfolio, we continue to maintain a
disciplined approach and in the month of
September in particular, we have grown
at 10.5% as compared to industry
degrowth of one of 1.8%.
I would also like to apprise you of
certain strategic initiatives that
continue to drive operational excellence
and customer centricity across the
organization.
Isles I have has further strengthened on
ground claim support for our health
customers. In H1 of 2026 the initiative
touched over 58,000 customers up from
34,000 in the same period last year. We
received feedback from over 20 22,000
customers in H1 of 2026. 94.4% 4% rated
their experience as exemplary which has
given us 4.5 as a rating over five
highlighting the support during claims
processing and assistance within with
hospital coordination.
This reaffirms our focus on
best-in-class service to our customers
during the moment of truth that and that
is all that matters. Our retail health
claim settlement ratio within 30 days
stood at 99.6% 6% for H1 2026, placing
us among the industry top performers and
underscoring our commitment to prompt
efficient claim servicing.
The company launched differentiated
service decks in June 2025. These decks
provide tailor servicing for two
priority customer segments, senior
citizens and high product density
customers. By identifying these profiles
at the point of contact and routing them
to specialized customer relationship
managers, we ensure conversations are
empathetic, personalized, and
valuedriven. Over 96,000 calls were
handled between June to September under
this initiative, generating there in 300
3,000 cross- shell opportunities. Our
belief is that differentiated care
simultantly builds loyalty and long-term
value.
Our ticket app, a one-stop solution for
insurance and wellness need, has now
crossed 18.4 million downloads,
reflecting growing customer engagements
and digital adoption. The gross return
premium earned from the Takeare app
during the period H1 2026 was 2088.2 2
million with the premium earning of H1
2025 with stood at 8 million.
We have continuously enhanced the
efficiency levels in motor claims. Our
preferred partner network services 75.1%
of our nonoem claims for quarter 226
up from 72.8% in quarter 225.
Furthermore, in the motor insurance own
damage segment 96.4% 4% of our total
claims were paid within 30 days for H1
2026.
If we look at the industry numbers for
the Peter quarter 1 2026, the same stood
at 82.4%
clearly highlighting IC Lumbar superior
claim settlement practice.
Our unwavering focus on putting the
customer for first continues to reflect
in our net promoter score for quarter 1
2026.
We recorded an NPS of 72 for health
claims and 66 for motor claims.
Demonstrating strong satisfaction level
and reinforcing our position as a
customercentric organization.
We continue to demonstrate
in face of rapid evolving industry
dynamics underscoring our unwavering
focus on delivering sustainable and
long-term profitability. Our strategic
direction is firmly rooted in a one team
philosophy which promotes collaboration,
operational excellence and a unified
approach across the organization. In
conclusion, GST and other regulatory
reforms being positive for the general
insurance sector, we are well positioned
to ride this momentum, responsibly
scaling our reach, sharpening our value
proposition and converting a more
supportive demand environment into
sustained highquality performance.
I will request Gopar to take through the
financial numbers for the recently
concluded quarter and half year. Uh
thanks Sanjie and uh good evening to
each one of you. I will now give you a
brief overview of the financial
performance of the recently concluded
quarter and half year. We have uploaded
the results presentation on our website.
You can access it as we walk you through
the performance numbers
with effect from October 1, 2024.
Long-term products are accounted on a 1
byN basis as mandated by the regulator
IID. Hence, H1 FI 2026 or for the matter
of fact even quarter 2 2026 FI numbers
are not comparable with the prior
periods. Uh please refer to our investor
presentation for further details. The
gross return premium of the company was
at rupes 151.11 billion in H1 FI26 as
against rupees 148.79 billion in H1 FI25
a growth of 1.6%.
GDP of the company was at rupes 143.31
billion in H1 FI26 as against rupes
144.09 billion in H1 FI25 a degrowth
of.5%
against the industry growth of 7.3%.
Excluding crop and mass health, GDPI
growth of the company was at 3.5% as
against investing growth of 10.5% in H1
FI26.
GDP of the company was at rupees 65.96
billion in Q2 FI26 as against rupees
67.21
billion in Q2 FI25 a degrowth of 1.9%
against the industry growth of 5.9% for
the same period. Excluding crop and mass
health, GDPI growth of the company was
at 3.5%. As against the industry growth
of 9.8% in quarter 2 FI26, our GDPI
during the quarter was mainly driven by
growth in the preferred lines of
business. The overall GDPI of our
commercial line segment grew by 6.1% to
rupes 15.84 billion in Q2 FI26 as
against rupes 14.93 billion in Q2 FI25.
On the retail side of the business, GDP
of the motor segment was at rupes 25.11
billion in Q2 FI26 as against rupes
24.82 82 billion in Q2 FI25 registering
a growth of 1.2%.
The advanced premium numbers was rupes
39.13 billion as at September 30 2025 as
against rupees 38.07 billion as at June
30, 2025. GDP of the health segment was
at rupes 16.49 billion in Q2 FI26 as
against rupes 15.29 billion in Q2 FI25
registering a growth of 7.8%. Our agents
including the point of sale distribution
count was 1 lakh 47,408
as on September 30, 2025 up from 143 675
as at June 30 2025. During the quarter
the industry witnessed multiple CAT
events
various parts of the country thereby
impacting our combined ratio which was
104% for H1 FI26 as against 103.2% 2%
for H1 FI25 excluding the impact of CAT
losses of rupees 73 billion in H1 FI26
and rupes 94 billion in H1 FI25
the com 103.3%
and 102.2% 2% respectively. Combined
ratio was 105.1%
in Q2 FI26,
104.5%
in Q2 FI25.
Excluding the impact of CAT losses of
rupees 73 billion in Q2 FI26 and 94
billion rupees in Q2 FI25. The combined
ratio was 103.8%
and 102.6% respectively. Our investment
assets during the quarter rose to rupes
562 billion as at September 30 to 2025
up from rupes 554.53 billion as at June
30, 2025. Our investment leverage net of
borrowings was 3.57 times as again
September 30, 2025 as against 3.74 times
as at June 30, 2025. Investment income
was at rupes 25.38 billion in H1 FI26 as
against rupees 22.52 billion in H1 FI25
on a quarterly basis investment income
was at rupes 12.49 billion in Q2 FI26 as
against rupes 11.24 billion in Q2 FI25
capital gains net of impairment on
investment assets stood at rupees 6.16
billion in H1 FI26 as compared to rupees
5.21 21 billion in H125.
Capital gains net of impairment on
investment assets stood at rupees 2.36
billion in Q2 FI26 as compared to almost
a similar number of rupees 2.37 billion
in Q2 FI25.
Our profit before tax grew by 22.3% and
stood at rupees 20.71 billion in H1 FI26
as against rupes 16.93 billion in H1
FI25. Whereas profit before tax grew by
17.2% 2% at rupees 10.77 billion in Q2
FI26 as against rupes 9.19 billion in Q2
FI25. Consequently, profit after tax
grew by 22.9%
and stood at rupees 15.67 billion in H1
FI26 as against rupees 12.74 billion in
H1 FI25. PAT grew by 18.1% at rupees 8.2
2 billion in quarter 2 FI26 up from
rupees 6.94 billion in Q2 FI25.
Return on average equity was 20.8% in H1
FI26 as against 20.3% in H1 FI25. The
return on average equity for the quarter
2 FI26 was 21.4%.
As against 21.8% in Q2 FI25.
Solveny ratio was at 2.73 times as at
September 30, 2025 as against 2.7 times
as at June 30, 2025
continued to be higher than the minimum
regulatory requirement of 1.59 1.5
times. Solveny ratio was at 2.69 as at
March 31, 2025. The board of directors
of the company has declared an interim
dividend of rupes 6.5 per share for H1
FI26 at against rupees 5.5 per share for
H1 FI25.
As I conclude, I would like to reaffirm
that we continue to stay focused on
driving profitable growth and
sustainable value creation while
protecting the interest of our
stakeholders and customers at all times.
We'll be happy to take any questions
that you have. Thank you.
>> Thank you very much. We will now begin
with the question and answer session.
Anyone who wishes to ask a question may
press star and then one on their
touchstone phone. If you wish to remove
yourself from the question queue, you
may press star and two. Participants are
requested to use handsets while asking a
question. Ladies and gentlemen, we will
wait for a moment while the question
queue assembles.
Our
first question comes from the line of
pre Jane from Motila Losal. Please go
ahead.
>> Yeah. Hi everyone. Congrats on a decent
set good set of numbers. Uh firstly you
know uh just on this GST uh impact right
uh the input tax credit will not be
available for the health insurance
piece. uh and so what was the impact of
that and uh whatever the sales could
have happened in uh 2Q and uh secondly
you know how uh going ahead how are you
kind of uh trying to offset this whether
through commission cards or u balancing
it uh across the product um product
other products that you have that would
be my first question
>> so uh pre I think u um u September it's
just about 9 days so and therefore to
that extent I think is honestly too
premature to kind of call out in terms
of uh what uh has been the impact I
think the key thing to look out is what
we kind of spelt out as a part of the
opening script I think what we are
seeing on ground I think the demand
momentum seems to be very very promising
and to that extent is what we have kind
of clearly uh got reflected as a part of
uh clearly increased volume of uh retail
health policies getting sourced. Uh I
think the key to look for is how do we
see let's say things playing out uh over
the next couple of quarters. We are very
very optimistic in terms of how this
particular reforms is likely to kind of
play out and in that context is how we
have kind of looked at even let's say
possibly the uh uh eventual impact of
any input tax credit on uh sourcing. I
think obviously to that extent I think
we have kind of I think which is which
is there. I think we have clearly
communicated that uh it will be a part
of the overall distribution cost in
terms of how do we kind of manage the
cost of sourcing. So in that context is
what even any related input trade will
be part and parcel of that. That's the
way how we are looking at it. But more
importantly as I said I think what we
are quite excited and uh and optimistic
is the relative uh scale up that one
expects consequent to this uh reforms
that has got announced. Yeah absolutely
I think uh press just to uh put across
uh we've been always discussing debating
in terms of what the sweet spot can be
can it be 12% can it be this eventually
this stimulus which has come has been
the biggest marketing in terms of
letting the customers or every Indian
know that how important health insurance
is and this move is very significant in
terms of managing a cost structure uh
something uh which any which there was
always a need. I think the industry is
working to make it much more reasonable
and it's also a win-win because the
volumes that will come on account of
that will also see that our partners
have enhanced you know income which will
come. So there is a clear play which is
evident and uh for us as a multi-line
company more so uh it puts us in a very
uh comfortable spot uh because we've got
other lines also. This is one component
of the whole thing and we are seeing
tremendous uh tailwinds. You can see our
own growth numbers on retail generity uh
which have been way ahead of the
industry and this further stimulus that
comes in also gives us an ability to
scale at a much faster speed with a
responsible underwriting. So the
guardrail which will continue to guide
us is that we underwrite in a
responsible manner and then the rest
should uh flow out and get evened out
with the every with the volumes that
will come through it.
>> Sure. But just further on that you know
uh Gopal or any any impact that you
would have seen in due to I understand
it's just for 9 days uh but you know
there would that have elevated the cost
ratios in this quarter uh in Tokyo for
the health segment and also uh you know
are you looking to increase the
distributor
uh are you looking to cut the
distributor commissions any
communications or any negotiations that
would have been started on that in that
regard.
So one I think as we keep saying uh uh
pre I think uh when you look at the
sourcing uh objective particularly in
the context of retail health we have
always kind of looked at in the context
of the combined ratio of the book that
we are kind of wanting to write at and
there I think clearly if you see even uh
uh on the on the loss experiences pretty
much uh even if you look at quarter two
or even for the matter of fact half year
I think the loss experience have pretty
much played out in line with our
expectations. So hence to that extent I
think the portfolio is kind of doing
well and linked to that is your cost of
sourcing which is obviously a part and
parcel of the overall combined numbers
which is what I called out at this point
of time the way we are looking at is uh
I think whatever cost that we would
incur as a part of uh of sourcing we'll
pretty much factor in also the related
possible loss that one is like expected
to see consequent to any loss of input
grade that we will see in the context of
retail health. But having said that, I
think what what is more relevant is what
even Sanji was kind of articulating. I
think we will be kind of pretty much uh
kind of pleased to look at how things
will play out for quarter 3 and this is
something that even the distributors
will start kind of uh seeing the impact
and the benefits. uh the increased
volumes automatically translates into a
better revenue stream for them and
therefore when they look at their
overall u distribution income uh they
would kind of clearly realize that they
are clearly far better off in terms of
where they are and at this point of time
no significant changes to let's say
whatever our overall uh cost of sourcing
has been I think anything that we would
incur as a part of sourcing would also
include the elements of input tax
dissolvance possibly that we will see on
the retail
Got that. Uh Google, the other question
was if I look at the uh NWP to GWP uh
that ratio is uh has inched up uh uh any
change in reinsurance strategy which has
kind of moved that or it's just a
product mix kind of a uh change. You
have the answer pre and uh so therefore
to that extent is what we keep saying. I
think uh our businesses is obviously
kind of cyclical on different lines of
businesses. Uh as you would have seen uh
in quarter two last year I think we did
have a relatively higher proportion of
uh crop mix uh which obviously has a
relatively lower retention compared to
that. If you'd have seen quarter two of
this year, I think our proportion of
crop is definitely much lower and hence
to that extent and therefore to that
extent and and the fact that retail
health for us has kind of done very
well. Uh I mean it was Q2 of last year
is when we had kind of largely launched
elevate as a solution and through the
next 12 months as we speak is where we
have been able to kind of witness an
improvement in uh sourcing and which is
what we spoke about also market share in
the month of September exceeding more
than 4%. uh so given the fact that that
is also kind of done well where
predominantly we kind of end up
retaining a large part of the risk on
the net. Hence short answer no change to
the thought process in terms of uh
reinsurance philosophy more the outcome
on the net premium to gross premium is
purely a function of the change in the
business mix between quarters.
>> Okay. Last question. Uh
>> sorry to interrupt pre sir may we
request you return to the question queue
for follow-up questions.
>> Thank you.
>> Thank you. Uh ladies and gentlemen, in
order to ensure that the management is
able to address questions from all the
participants in the conference, please
limit your questions to only two per
participant. If you have any follow-up
questions, you may rejoin the queue. I
our next question comes from the line of
Madukar Lada from Noama Wealth
Management. Please go ahead.
>> Uh hi. Uh so uh couple of questions from
my side. uh first uh if I look at the
commission ratio that's uh in stock uh
significantly in uh Q2. So uh probably
more uh you know product mix and is it
also because of uh longerterm products
that we're writing? Uh is it because of
that? Uh second
uh on motor OD we see an inch up in the
loss ratio
uh and uh you know very high comparative
intensity and we're losing sort of
market share uh also in in that line of
business.
So um with with the GST cut uh what
would you expect from here? Do we should
we expect sort of the competitive
intensity to come down and uh some
market share recovery happening over
there and why are our loss ratios going
up despite we being sort of more
conservative in this line of business?
So Badukar I think on the first part I
think again as we keep saying one is
what you rightly answered and what I
kind of talked about I think there is
always an element of change in uh change
in the business mix in terms of what you
look at uh in quarter 2 versus let's say
quarter 1 or even for the matter of fact
when you look at even within a
comparable quarter uh but the larger the
larger way that we have always looked at
is in the context of the overall expense
of management which as a company as we
keep is something that we are very very
conscious of and even if whether you
look at it for uh on a half yearly basis
I think our uh our expensive management
numbers are well within the limits of
the 30% threshold that uh one has put
out uh so hence in that context I think
we are pretty much on course in terms of
what we want to do and again at the end
of the day commission ratios again
whichever way you look at it will also
be a function of what mix of business do
you end up doing more in terms of new uh
renewal
And in the context of retail health that
we spoke about I think that's kind of
doing well in terms of the overall loss
experience a large part of the book that
we have sourced also in comes in the
context of as a a new growth and that
would entail some amount of uh cost of
sourcing. So, so a lot of factors but if
you ask us I think what we are quite
comfortable with is the fact that I
spoke about in the context of making
sure that we stay within the guarded
rail of uh within that 30% limit on
overall extensive management to your
impact uh sorry is there any impact of
GST uh ITC amount
>> which is what I called out I think at at
least so far as quarter 2 is concerned
which is why I kind of also responded to
pri's question I think uh at this point
of time honestly uh the commission ratio
does not have any factor uh uh any
significant impact at least in so far as
uh
>> the impact of GST is concerned. uh to
the second point on the motor uh own
damage loss ratios. I think this is
something that I keep talking every
quarter um for I think we should keep
looking at one is of course is is
quarterto quarter a right comparison
honestly as we keep saying there are all
various factors or nuances that go into
uh the loss ratio numbers and uh
secondly as I as we have always
mentioned in the past I think the better
way to look at is more in terms of motor
as a category and that to more on
ideally on a year-to- date basis and if
you and if you recolct just to refresh
the overall All motor loss ratio range
that we have spoken about to the streets
have been in the range of 65 to 67%. And
even if you look at the first half
numbers for overall motor I think the
overall loss ratio stands that if I
remember the numbers correctly it's
about 66.6%.
So it's well within that range of 65 to
67% in terms of what we want to operate
and hence but yes between periods there
can always be let's say some bit of uh
volatility to the overall loss numbers
but honestly I think what we are again
comfortable with is within the range
that one is operating at
>> and also Maduka just to add to this for
you and everybody else who are you know
on the call is also the configuration of
business if you see uh relatively if the
new business is on the higher side the
loss ratios do tend to get lower while
the old ones the loss ratios are high.
So there's a mix that comes in and uh
you know that the growth if we leave
aside what happened you know prior to
September 22nd uh was very muted. So we
were seeing lot more growth coming from
the old veer where loss loss ratio can
be a bit more elevated. So there there's
element also which gets played out uh uh
we and there is also quarter to little
bit of cat part that comes on to play
which makes the loss look elevated. So
there's a combination which has got us
we don't see any challenge we continue
to maintain our discipline and we are
excited about the fact that uh the
industry may probably see record numbers
in the coming quarter.
>> Got it.
>> New sales. Yeah. Okay.
And uh just on the comparative
intensity, sorry to interrupt, you know,
comment on that.
>> Sir, sorry to interrupt. May we request
you to return to the queue for follow-up
questions, please, as there are several
other participants waiting for their
turn.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of
Sankit God from Aender Park. Please go
ahead.
>> Uh yeah. Uh thank you for the
opportunity. Uh uh Gopal given given GST
cut IDB will come down. So it is fair to
assume that your your motor OD loss
ratios invariably will go up because of
the vehicle GST cuts and and do you
think the RO depletion which could
happen because of the higher loss ratios
in motor OD can it be more than
compensated or at least compensated by
the extra float either in the form of
advanced premium or or the premium
you'll collect because of the new sales
will be good enough to to to to see the
uh positive above on the profitability
and and related that on on TP side uh
given given uh GST on CV has been
reduced and and uh and and you have
input credit benefit so in indirectly it
is kind of a price hike to you guys so
so just wondering that given we were
never that such a strong player in CV
segment uh given given we are seeing a
bit of uptick in CV segment in second
quarter compared to 1Q whether whether
you'll change a bit of strategy on CV
going ahead or not so so that's that's
largely the question I have on motorb
Please
>> yeah I think possibly Sankit you have
actually answered what you wanted to
ask. So therefore to that extent I think
pretty much uh pretty much uh pretty
much what you kind of asked. I think uh
one um I think on the motor home own
damage side again let's look at it in
the context of what's happening on
ground. I think there seems to be
clearly a lot of five cheer there
clearly element of pent-up demand and
therefore pretty much similar to what I
spoke in the context of health. I think
what we are again uh then this is there
in terms of the data that was released
by far which is what we kind of also put
out as a part of the opening transcript.
Clearly there is seems to be a renewed
momentum on ground in terms of uh in
terms of increased uh volume of vehicle
sales and that's an area from an ISIS
and Lombard standpoint where we clearly
have an edge and that's the reason why
we are specifically also called out to
see say that relative to what one had
experienced in the first five months
when you look at particularly for the
month of September I think we have been
able to kind of get back a lot of our uh
uh lost momentum and hence to that
extent I think we believe we are
positively placed in so far as the
opportunity for the future is concerned
on the impact on uh the possible
deduction. Of course as we have again
articulated as a responsible uh
institution we will obviously make sure
that whatever is required to be passed
on to the consumers in the form of uh
the reforms that has been entailed
pretty much on course to make sure that
all of those things will be completely
passed on and that's what we have done
and uh and of course uh as you rightly
said there are those various factors
that depending on what volumes or what
type of vehicles are customers wanting
to buy will be a factor to determine how
some part of the impact will played out.
Our own efficiencies that we can bring
about in the context of the business mix
that we write will also be an element
that we kind of to some extent take care
of some of the possible impact that one
would uh see on the book assuming we
don't do uh anything on uh on on the uh
on the uh drop in the value of the
vehicle and three is obviously again a
function of the claim efficiencies. I
think as an organization again we have
been speak we have time and again spoken
about the various claim intervention
initiatives that we have kind of worked
on all of this as which is why we called
out even at the time when these
announcements were made we had said that
all said and done I think from an ISIS
standpoint I think we should be able to
kind of take some of this impact within
the overall scale of operations. Uh I
think the key thing to look out for will
be how does things play out over the
next couple of quarters. Uh which is
where we are kind of very very positive
and optimistic in terms of how do we see
things playing out on ground. On the
impact side I think we think this is
something that we should be able to kind
of manage within the overall scale of
operations.
>> Got it. Got it. Go for and and lastly on
data keeping this reinsurance accepted
business 62 crores what we did in sec
current quarter or even a much bigger
number in first half it is largely
related to which line of business uh and
this number will continue even in second
half.
So
>> again sit this question just does keep
coming uh to us uh on different uh at
different time points I think as what we
have clearly maintained is pretty much
similar to what we have kind of talked
about in the context of uh crop. I think
uh these are opportunistic uh these are
opportunistic uh calls that we take
purely from an underwriting standpoint.
Uh whatever fits within our underwriting
acceptances criteria is what we end up
writing whether it is for direct or even
for the matter of fact as reinsurancees
acceptances. But each of this even if
you look at it on a full year basis for
example last year our overall proportion
of reinsurance acceptances to the total
volume of gross premiums that we would
have underwritten as a company has been
clearly a single-digit number. uh so
when you start looking at some of these
numbers particularly whether we a
quarter I think there can always be
abrasions when you look start look at in
the context of percentages but if you
ask us from a thought process or let's
say from a philosophy standpoints purely
guided by the underwriting filters that
we kind of put in terms of risk
acceptance and do we expect each of
these to suddenly become a very large
proportion of our overall gross premium
the short answer is no it'll be well
within the defined uh limits that we
have as an institution
>> got it goas thanks thanks for the
answers
Thanks.
>> Thank you. Our next question comes from
the line of Midesh from Invest. Please
go ahead.
>> Uh thanks for the opportunity. My
question is on retail health insurance.
Uh uh so can you share uh loss ratios in
the retail health insurance and group
health insurance for the quarter and
second is uh what is the share of agency
and non- agency channel in the retail
health insurance? I'm trying to
understand how how we have been able to
show pretty strong growth in retail
health insurance over last one year.
>> I was just waiting for this question to
be asked in the context of the split
between uh loss ratios on uh retail
indemnity and let's say the uh corporate
health. Um so uh so if you I'll just
first give the numbers for quarter two
last year. Uh and first I will give the
group health or let's say the employer
employee health numbers. uh Q2 last year
uh employer employee or group health
numbers was 98% on the loss ratio. Uh
this number for quarter 2 of the current
year stands at about 93.7%.
Uh and on a half yearly basis again
employer employee loss ratio H1 last
year that number was 98%. This number
for H1 of the current year is at 94.6%.
Uh that's employer employee health on
retail indemnity. Again in the same
order quarter two last year the loss
ratio was 70.3%.
And H1 of last year was 71.4%.
And uh if you look at quarter 2 of the
current year the loss ratio on retail
indemnity stands at 65.4%.
And on a half yearly basis it stands at
about 69.7%.
Now just to kind of again refresh on the
retail indemnity book pretty much
similar to what I spoke about on uh
overall motor where to the streets we
have been generally talking about a loss
ratio range that you are comfortable at
65 to 67%.
Even on retail health indeinity the
range that we have been speaking about
is to maintain the loss ratio in the
range of 65 to 70 and if you see on a
half basis on the retail health
indemnity book the loss ratio is within
that range of 65 to 70. So that's where
we are in terms of uh the split of the
loss ratio numbers on the split of uh
the business between uh agency and other
than agency. Generally the proportion of
the book that we do through agency is
about uh 2/3 roughly and the rest of the
book will be of the balance one/3
>> and both channels are growing as a
similar pace or
>> agency has been relatively faster uh at
this point of time uh but it's uh both
of them are in very high zone because
overall growth itself of the book is in
the 50s range if you look at NBC places.
So there's a significant traction that
we see and uh we are excited about both
the opportunities whether agency or non-
agency.
>> Sure. Sure. Thank you. That's it from my
side.
>> Thanks.
>> Thank you. Our next question comes from
the line of Ain Singh from MK Global.
Please go ahead.
>> Yeah. Hi. Uh good evening. Thanks for
the opportunity. Uh two questions. First
uh can you please sort of provide some
color on your market share in motor in
terms of new air and renewal uh I mean
I'm asking because if I understand
correctly I mean your pricing is uh
reasonably higher than aggressive
competitors and you have a kind of a
strong acceptance at uh the dealer
points uh so in that context I wanted to
understand if that there's wide
divergency markets here in the new
renewal market in motor that's one
Second uh now uh with this uh GST thing
in action in terms of growth driver at
the industry level what do I mean do you
think industry uh at the aggregate level
going to uh return to a strong growth
phase probably in the next year or so
because I mean uh in the recent year
motor vehicle sales have been one kind
of a point uh pinpoint then you also had
some of these schemes fading out of
course does not matter for you much but
like crop insurance and all that have
been seeing a bit of a decline so at the
aggregate level what could be the in
terms of value terms premium driver for
the industry probably in F27 thanks
so uh Ain uh honestly I think what we
can talk about is more at an aggregate
level in terms of motor as a category uh
in terms of market share which is there
if you look at the first half of uh last
year we had a market share of roughly
about 10.9% and if If you look at the
first half of the current year, we have
a market share of roughly about 10.4%.
Uh this is both half year to half year.
Uh within that, I think uh we keep kind
of toggling between new and renewal. So
honestly, I think too difficult to kind
of call out specifically what could be
the market share because that could keep
changing depending on what kind of a mix
of the portfolio that one wants to kind
of underwrite. So that's the reason why
we we're not specifically calling out in
terms of what would be a market share
between new and what would be a market
share between uh the renewal book. To
your second point on uh do we expect the
demand on ground to sustain even for the
next year. I think honestly we will we
will we will obviously play through the
quarters uh in terms of how how one sees
uh uh demand playing out which is what
we called out even on the opening
transcript. I think the good part is I
think the the the the the pace of
reforms that has been exhibited across
the various regulatory authorities I
think has clearly set the tone on ground
and that's also kind of reflective in
terms of the outcomes that one has seen
in the initial uh few days of let's say
the quarter ended uh September and the
good news is I think I'm sure all of you
are also equally tracking in terms of
what's happening on ground uh
particularly with respect to the volume
of vehicle sales fields that's playing
out uh at the initial indications even
one was if one was want to see in the
months of October I think the the demand
definitely is kind of uh continuing and
therefore there's a clear expectation
with some of these some of these
actions/ reforms that has been exhibited
as I said by the various regulatory
authorities looks to be very very kind
of conducive for the momentum to kind of
sustain over the next few quarters but
honestly we will keep coming back to all
of you in terms of what do we on ground
uh across various quarters but at least
clearly the as what one said uh the tone
that has been set clearly looks quite
promising when you look at the road head
>> no no no absolutely right and you know
even if you look at in a bit of a you
know you get to the second layer of
number the total incremental accretion
in motor has been around 3,300 cr and
you see the distribution of that pile
you realize that you know one PSU itself
has picked up more than 1,000 crores so
it's been a very skewed one where you
know things have moved in a not in a
distributed manner and whenever
something like this is there we'll have
to be very very picky. We still continue
to be number one player as far as motor
category is concerned. We do acknowledge
the fact that the loss of half a
percent, it's more tactical where we do
believe if it's not making sense, we
will uh we will let it pass. Uh but we
also are aware that no one can keep
doing something like this over sustained
quarters after quarters. So we we need
to be patient. Uh and just to add on to
the fact uh clearly yes uh new is our
strength and we do see tremendous uh
train tailwind and we spoke about it
very categorically. Will that lead to
motor industry per say showing a better
growth? My the belief and the answer is
clearly we do believe so but it has to
pan out on a more consistent basis. The
only element that we want to adjust at
this point of time is there was a
pent-up demand which also was there
because post 15 there wasn't much
happening in the market. Uh our math
says even adjust to adjusted to that the
excitement in the market uh is very high
and uh we will stay connected. I'm sure
those numbers are which you are all you
all are very well aware of but we see a
significant opportunity in quarter three
and probably even H2 of this financial
year and this should occur well for the
industry uh even for uh next financial
year if that's what your question is
>> thanks any view on motor TP tariffs
>> uh well your guess will be as good as
ours we keep hearing that something is
on the anvil and the industry's demand
per say on seeing uh some bit of a hike
or adjustment or realignment of motor TP
is there in every single forum and we do
expect and believe that we will hear a
positive news on that sooner than later.
>> Thank you. Thank you. Very clear.
>> Thanks Ain. Thank you.
>> Thank you. Our next question comes from
Sha Shivani from Nuraba. Please go
ahead.
>> Yeah. Hi. Uh thank you for the
opportunity. Uh I just have one
question. Uh this is on the commercial
segment. Um I mean there have been many
media articles. Uh whether it be fire,
marine, crop, there is increased uh
competitive uh there's increased
competition in the segment. Now I
understand that you guys are still
growing quite well. However, if I look
at your underwriting profit in the fire
book 1 H over 1 H, it's down. the
underwriting profit in the miscellaneous
corporate book. Uh I mean it's turned uh
lossmaking in this 1 versus previous 1.
So uh is it fair to assess that um uh
there has been some uh impact on our
book because of the competition or the
price war that's going on in the segment
in spite of the growth that we've been
delivering? Uh that's just that's the
only question I have.
So, so Sha I think again um I think
particularly on commercial lines uh the
portfolio inherently subject to an
element of volatility when you look at
it purely from an absolute underwriting
outcome and the reason why we are one is
saying this is uh I think increasingly
you are getting to experience a lot many
more catastrophic events play out or as
a matter of fact even if you possibly
experience any large risk event then to
that extent you may possibly see the
outcome of the underwriting book uh kind
of reflecting an outcome which for a
particular given period could be adverse
compared to any other uh uh relative
reference uh quarters. But having said
that I think from our standpoint I think
which is what we have been talking
through consistently our approach or
thought process to writing risk has been
to kind of keep looking for prudent/p
profofitable risk selection uh portfolio
that's not just across commissioners
even across other lines of businesses
and that's the reason why I think at an
aggregate level in the initial few
months we actually have been kind of
losing again some market uh but the good
news is again things seems to be kind of
looking up quite positively for us when
you see the month of September and hence
to that extent we continue to stay
looking for profitable uh risk selection
uh opportunities outcomes on
underwriting whether you take fire
whether you take miscellaneous corporate
or for the matter of fact anything from
an absolute basis will be purely
reflection of some of the loss events
that could have got played out in that
particular quarter the real reflection
is I think as what we keep saying on the
overall commercial lines book. I think
that's a book that has inherently
generated us good uh good cash flows. Uh
it has also enabled us to kind of
generate better ROIs and overall the
book that we have been writing has been
a decent uh combined ratio outcome. So
that's something from a philosophy
standpoint that we stand committed but
as I said in a given quarter or so from
an absolute outcome will be purely a
function of some of the loss events. So,
so ideally what time period should I
look if I want to understand the fire
performance?
>> So, time period I think summation of
quarters which is there the past 3 years
or so if you look at where the average
is can give you a very decent indication
in terms of where the loss ratio
resides. Uh a quarterto quarter movement
as Gopal explained can be very you know
dangerous to take a call. The long and
short what we can put across very
confidently is there was a cat event
there was one or two large losses which
is kind of reflected but it can play out
uh over you know a couple of quarters
and you will see a moderation in the
loss overall in time to come. But the
best way to look at it is dig in the in
the past and see in summation. If you
look at last you know 16 you know 10
quarters 12 quarters how does the loss
ratio moves you will get a very clear
indication that this is what the broadly
the range is uh in our mind uh this is
absolutely nothing in fact I can share
with you that the rate which is there or
the risk basis uh we've realized more
than 20% than what we used to and I
would also put across the fact that this
was on a lower base last uh year if you
see the commentary that we had on fire.
Uh the industry was not pricing it
appropriately. Some bit of semblance has
come and that has helped uh uh each of
the industry player including ourselves.
Uh but what we not what we pride is not
on the incremental risk but the
selection of risk that we want to write
and that is what uh can be a big
differentiator over submission of
quarters.
>> Got it. This is very useful. Uh thank
you and all the best.
>> Thanks Sha. Thank you.
>> Thank you. Our next question comes from
the line of Nirj to Nwal from UPS
securities. Please go ahead.
>> Yeah. Uh hi everyone. So I think uh lot
of debate has already happened on theirs
but still to get more sense on uh how
should one think about you know second
half in terms of growth and combine
both. uh any color will be more helpful
because uh definitely 9 days have been
positive but uh but to get a sense of
you know uh uh because will be off base
also in terms of 1 by n impact which
started from last 1 October uh which
will also be a you know positive thing
uh to support growth how should one
think about growth and then obviously in
terms of underwriting profits and then
overall profits.
>> Thanks. Thanks N. Finally uh hopefully
from next quarter onwards we don't have
to really kind of talk about this n and
one by n so therefore to that extent I
think for all of us uh there will be one
set of numbers that we will kind of uh
start looking at it collectively uh but
having said that uh I think if you look
at the narrative that we have largely
spoken nearest to all of you is that uh
I think on ground I think which is what
we kind of have been calling out I think
we are very very excited and pleased
with with how some of the regulatory
actions are getting translated in terms
of reforms on ground and hence to that
extent I think from an IC alumba
standpoint I think we're very very well
poised to capitalize this opportunity of
growth across uh streams of businesses
so hence to that extent I think possibly
the extent of uh market share loss that
one had seen particularly over the last
couple of few quarters I think one
definitely expects that particular trend
line to start getting reversed and hence
to that extent in line with what we have
been saying we should logically start
getting incremental market share vis the
industry uh overall growth numbers
that's more from an overall growth
standpoint but when it comes to more
combined ratio/ roas I think both Sanjiv
and all of us I think in general I think
what we have been talking about is to
try and sustain that ro in that range of
18 to 20%. And even if you look at it
whether you look at quarter two or even
if you look even for the matter of fact
if you look at half year I think we have
largely been able to kind of stay around
the range of 18 to 20% from an RO. Uh so
and therefore even as we head into the
second half I think we'll be extremely
mindful of making sure that we able to
we are able to sustain this uh but all
of this we will obviously keep a very
very close watch in terms of how the
industry is also kind of uh declaring
their numbers. So I think we do
understand that some companies have
started declaring results for quarter
two uh so and we will see the
directional trend on uh how it plays out
but from our standpoint I think that's
Sanji if you want to add anything.
>> No no no I think we've spoken and this
is uh well spoken. I think nothing more
to add to this.
>> Got it. And uh just one bookkeeping what
is what is the yield uh right now and
the duration of the book and the
long-term portfolio now versus last
year.
>> So the duration of the book is about
4.74 years and the yield on the book uh
YTM is about 7.39%.
And on the long-term portfolio uh if we
have that data handy
a long-term portfolio if are you
referring in the context of uh on the
business side?
>> Yes. Uh
the
>> so on N to one by I think that's a
number that we have called out
separately. uh uh NRA in our investor
deck I think if you look at the total
long-term premium that could have got
recognized as premium on a half yearly
basis is roughly about 6.2 billion and
for the quarter that number stands at
roughly about 3.6 6 million.
>> Uh that is helpful. Uh thank you.
>> Thank you.
>> Thank you ladies and gentlemen. We will
take this as the last question for
today. I now hand the conference over to
the management uh for closing comments.
No,
>> I think great. I think thank you so much
uh for joining in. Uh we run into uh
festivities uh uh going forward. So, we
would wish each one of you and your
family members a great